In this lecture, we'll take a look at how we can click on elements such as buttons.
And although you've seen this briefly, it's important to follow along as we'll be creating a code repository,
which you can then refer back to in the future.
So how do we click on elements?
We use a command called Click.
The Click Command emulates a click operation for a link button, checkbox or radio button.
A few examples we might want to do.
This is when we submit a form, go to a different web page by clicking the link.
Let's put focus on an element.
An example of how we use this command is driver defined elements by name submit.
Act click.
So let's try it out.
So the first thing I'm going to do is open up Eclipse.
And because we're in Section five, I'm going to create a new package.
So if you right click the sauce folder, select new and then select package.
I'm going to get this package in name of section zero five for Section five and then click Finish and
you'll see that package is now appeared.
If I right click that package and then select new and insert class, that will create a class within
that package.
And I'm going to call this class.
l02 because this is lecture two of Section five.
I'm the school.
Cricket.
Buttons.
And I'm going to select this public static web main and then click Finish.
Then that would open up the new class.
So rather than manually write in the setup code that we've seen a number of times previously, I'm going
to use the setup code from a previous class.
So I have opened the Locate in Boyardee class, and I'm going to highlight the following code.
And I'm going to switch back to my new class.
Now I'm going to simply paste it in the following section.
Mike So.
So we know that this code simply creates a new chrome driver.
It opens, it expands the window, and then it goes to the automation test in the button's web page.
So under this line I'm going to write driver dot find element by.
And I'm going to use CC selector.
And I'm going to provide double quotes.
And at the end of that line, I'm going to add a semicolon.
So I need to find a selector for the button that I want to click.
So I'm going to go and open my browser.
I'm going to go to automation, test the website.
Click on the Buttons page, and I'm going to find a CSF selector by open up, inspect the window.
And then if I go to Ragnarok, Philosophy Tab began to use this to find or view the select of my chooser.
So I'm going to use a select little.
I am then going to select button free.
And if we look at the suggested selectors, we can see a CSA selector for button free on the top line
now, which I'm going to copy.
I'm going to go back to the clips and I'm going to PACER select the value inside those double quotes.
And because this is the button, I want to click this button.
So at the end of that line and before the semicolon, I'm going to write a dot click.
He also appears to be too semi-colon.
So I'm just going to remove one of those.
So I'm now simply going to cite this class and I'm going to try running it.
So if I right click this class runner's drive application, let's see what happens.
And you can see that pop up has appeared saying you have clicked the third button.
So that proves that this code here was able to click that element by using the click command and by
using the selector provided.